motorWeek is made possible by Rock auto
fire rock and diehard surprisingly in my
repair shop we find one of the most
neglected parts of the average car is
the cooling system seems that a lot of
people look at it out of sight out of
mind they don't pay any attention to it
but in reality you should be checking
the coolant in the cooling system at
least once every year now regardless of
what the owners manual says the owners
manual may say that the coolant is
designed to last up to five years or
150,000 miles that doesn't mean it will
so be proactive and check it before it
does damage one thing you can do is use
a simple hydrometer like this draws some
coolant up inside it and it tells you
the freeze protection it also tells you
if the coolant is still clear in the
proper color but a better way to do it
is right here
these are coolant test strips you dip
these into the coolant then the little
pads on them change color and you
compare that color with the colors on
the side of the bottle and it tells you
whether the coolant is good or bad
now another test and this one is a
little sophisticated but you need a
simple voltmeter you set it on DC volts
you connect the negative cable to the
negative terminal of the battery then
with the radiator cap off and the car
running at about 2,000 rpm you dip the
read probe into the coolant like so and
you get a reading on here that reading
should be less than four tenths of one
volt if it exceeds four tenths of one
volt the coolant needs to come out the
system flushed and if that doesn't take
care of it then you need to check the
electrical system on the car also the
coolant that you put into it
well one size doesn't necessarily fit
all so you want to look in your owner's
manual there will be a number a
qualification number or an ASTM number
make sure that that number appears on
the container of coolant that you're
buying always use distilled water you
mix the coolant and the water 50/50
outside the car then you put the mix
into the car you never put just plain
water or plain coolant because that can
upset the balance in the system take
care of that and you'll never have any
cooling system problems we hope and if
you have a question or comment drop me a
line right here at motorWeek
you